Add tostadas tutorials, screenshots, expanded troubleshooting (#50)
ASU-RSE-Services/apgap-documentation: content/docs/apgap_ecosystem/pipelines/tostadas/_index.md

+++
title = 'tostadas'
weight = 20
date = 2026-08-21
bookCollapseSection = true
+++

# tostadas

**tostadas** takes a finished viral genome and packages it into a submission-ready bundle for NCBI GenBank. It handles annotation, validation, and file assembly. It does not submit for you unless you explicitly tell it to; the default path stops one step short.

## When to use it

Reach for tostadas when you have a **consensus FASTA** (usually produced upstream by [notebook 03 (viralrecon)](../../notebook-templates/#03-launch-a-pipeline)) and want to prepare it for submission to public databases. Typical use cases:

- Publishing an assembled viral genome to GenBank.
- Producing a dry-run submission package for internal review before a public release.
- Building a repeatable submission workflow that fits inside a bioinformatics pipeline (not one-off manual submissions).

> If you only need raw reads (FASTQ) submitted to SRA, or want to update fields on an existing BioSample, tostadas supports those workflows too via the `--workflow biosample_sra` and `--workflow biosample_update` flags. This documentation focuses on the `genbank` workflow, which is the most common path and the one nb 06 (the tostadas launch notebook shipped in the Workbench) demonstrates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you only need raw reads (FASTQ) submitted to SRA, or want to update fields on an existing BioSample, tostadas supports those workflows too via the `--workflow biosample_sra` and `--workflow biosample_update` flags. This documentation focuses on the `genbank` workflow, which is the most common path and the one [notebook 06 (the tostadas launch notebook)](../../notebook-templates/#06-launch-tostadas) demonstrates.
```

| Validation summaries | Per-sample reports on whether the metadata and genome pass NCBI's rules. | If a field is missing or malformed, this tells you exactly what to fix. |

## Two ways to launch it

**From Vertex AI Workbench (notebook 06).** Open `06-launch-tostadas.ipynb` in your Workbench. The notebook installs Nextflow, writes a Google Batch config for your project, clones the pipeline, and launches. Best fit when you want the launch flow visible in a notebook alongside your other analytical work.

**From Seqera Platform Launchpad.** Click Launch on your workspace's pre-registered `tostadas-measles-vadr` pipeline row, verify the inherited defaults, set `outdir`, and launch through the Seqera UI. Prefer this when you want a persistent launch definition and centralized run history across the workspace. On APGAP deployments the pipeline is usually pre-registered with all necessary profiles and config baked in; the [Launch from Seqera](tutorial-seqera/) tutorial covers both the everyday launch flow and the admin flow to register it from scratch.

Step-by-step walkthroughs for both paths land in the tutorial pages under this section.

## Parameters

> The parameters below are the ones you commonly override at launch time. The pipeline exposes many more; see the [tostadas repo](https://github.com/azpathogens/tostadas) for the full reference.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The parameters below are the ones you commonly override at launch time. The pipeline exposes many more; see the [tostadas repository](https://github.com/azpathogens/tostadas) for the full reference.
```

(sorry, just nitpicking 😅)
